---
title: CI, CD, and D&D
published: false
date: 2024-02-05 00:00:00 +/-0000
categories: [personal]
tags: [project]     # TAG names should always be lowercase
image:
    path: /assets/images/2024/appsec.jpg
---

Earlier this year I eased my way back into playing *Dungeons & Dragons* with a group of friends, picking up a hobby I hadn't touched in well over a decade. As the game's so-called "dungeon master" (DM), a lot of the game's preparation and execution falls on me to orchestrate; while I'm more than happy to do so, there is a lot of cognitive load that comes with this - especially when accounting for the independent actions/effects/intentions of the six other players at the table. Removing/automating some of this helps make the game faster and more fun (for me at least).

While there's a lot of really useful tools - such as Virtual Table Tops (VTTs) - out there to help automate the various number crunching that goes along with the game, I was looking for something a little more tailored and better suited for what I was doing for our home game. The more I thought about it, the more I got excited about the idea of simply coding together my own application to serve these ends. To that end, I put together this blog post to catalogue the various lesons learned along the way for those interested. From the onset, I envisioned something like the following:


* My players and I utilize the official **dndbeyond.com** service(s) for helping manage our game; I made a push early on to use this service to help centrally manage things and reduce the learning overhead needed by the people I play with. I'd like to be able to reference their character information as much as I'm able to through said app.
  * Importantly, I want to mitigate (as much as possible) their need/involvement in any technical setup; I don't want to be their IT guy on top of their DM.
* I want to model my application after the [encounter builder app](https://www.dndbeyond.com/encounter-builder) provided by **dndbeyond.com**.
  * The app should have an index of monsters, their abilities, etc. to reference.
  * The app should have some semblance of "Challenge Rating" estimations.
  * The app should be able to launch/start the encounter against the players, tracking initiative, damage, etc.
  * In addition to what the app provides, I want to build on its functionality (permitting withdrawals/re-entry, an expanded selection of monsters, etc.), taking on a number of suggestions that have gone unanswered on the official forums.
* The app does NOT need to write data back to the players' character sheets (i.e. adjusting their HP); I expect the players to independently manage this through the dndbeyond app.
* I'd like to incorporate dice rolling. More specifically:
  * I like the integrated dice rolling that's a part of the encounter builder app (where a user can click portions of the statblock to automatically roll for those things, like attacks with modifiers).
  * I'd like to make a 3D dice roller as a part of the app.
* The app should be able to "save" encounters in case the game needs to be paused mid-encounter.

This was a tall order, but since I stood nothing to lose I figured I'd have a crack at it.

## First Hurdle: Infrastructure

I went back-and-forth on the background architecture supporting the application. For the games I host at home, I use a Windows laptop with [a triple screen extender](https://www.amazon.com/s?k=tri+screen+portable+monitor+for+laptop) that has an internet connection to help manage the game; I thought about making a compiled executable (*.EXE) program, but ultimately decided it would be better to make this a web-hosted app instead. This would make it accessible from any internet-connected browser, regardless of OS. If (in the future) I wanted to build in a feature that enabled multiple people to observe the same session, this would also help facilitate that.

One problem I came up against right away was how to host it. I pretty quickly decided to use [Github pages](https://docs.github.com/en/pages/quickstart), since it's free and I'm pretty comfortable with it. However, I already use the service to host this very blog, so I couldn't use my same Github account to ALSO host the D&D application (Github only permits 1 subdomain per account `<username>.github.io`, and that one for my github account already redirects to this blog).

A simple solution would be to simply make a new, distinct Github account and develop the app on there. However, Github has some neat tracking functionality to show when/how you're active in your coding efforts, so I wanted that work to be reflected on my primary Github account. So for my first learning moment, I got my hands dirty in making a Continuous Integration & Continuous Delivery (CI/CD) pipeline between 2 accounts.

The idea was simple:

1. Make an alternative Github account to host the D&D app repo and corresponding Github page.
2. Fork the app repository onto my primary Github account.
3. Clone the forked repository locally onto my localized machine for editing.
4. Setup a CI/CD pipeline to automate commits to the fork as pull requests to the original repo for merging.
