---
title: HTB Tier 3 Path Review
published: false
date: 2024-02-05 00:00:00 +/-0000
categories: [general,notes]
tags: [resources]     # TAG names should always be lowercase
image:
    path: /assets/images/appsec.jpg
---

<style>
  /*This is code to make the dropdown menu a little more aesthetically pleasing*/
  @keyframes details-show {
  from {
    opacity:0;
    transform: var(--details-translate, translateY(-0.5em));
  }
}
details[open] > *:not(summary) {
  animation: details-show 150ms ease-in-out;
}

</style>

## Introduction

Late in 2023, Hack The Box announced new Senior Web Penetration Tester training path along their Academy platform which aligns to their Certified Web Exploitation Expert (CWEE) certification. The CWEE - released earlier in 2024 - is the first of their certifications which included **Tier 3** module content; up until now content aligned to their certifications (the CDSA, CBBH, and CPTS) all exclusively engaged **Tier 2** material.

<center>
<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">New level unlocked 🔓 <br>Introducing the Senior Web Penetration Tester job role path on <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/HTB?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#HTB</a> Academy! 15 modules will walk you through identifying advanced and hard-to-find <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/web?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#web</a> vulnerabilities to take your expertise to the next level.<br><br>⭐️ You can now access the path with the new… <a href="https://t.co/7n3HRE5PWR">pic.twitter.com/7n3HRE5PWR</a></p>&mdash; Hack The Box (@hackthebox_eu) <a href="https://twitter.com/hackthebox_eu/status/1735706734704886220?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">December 15, 2023</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>
</center>

Implicitly, the release of the path was meant to suggest that this training would be more challenging and I was eager to see how. At-a-glance, the path is composed of the following modules:

* Injection Attacks
* Introduction to NoSQL Injection
* Attacking Authentication Mechanisms
* Advanced XSS and CSRF Exploitation
* HTTPs/TLS Attacks
* Abusing HTTP Misconfigurations
* HTTP Attacks
* Blind SQL Injection
* Intro to Whitebox Pentesting
* Modern Web Exploitation Techniques
* Introduction to Deserialization Attacks
* Whitebox Attacks
* Advanced SQL Injections
* Advanced Deserialization Attacks
* Parameter Logic Bugs

This blog post is a review and summary of the Tier 3 training path that aligns to the CWEE certification. It speaks to questions like "what do you learn?" and "what can I expect?". It is not a walkthrough of the material, nor does it speak to the answers for each of the modules' questions and their respective "Skills Assessments". In alignment with Hack The Box's terms of service, I encourage you to engage their Discord and Forums for aid in that regard. However, I do highlight fixes to administrative issues I encountered throughout, as I believe these are not deliberately built into the respective lesson objectives and do not otherwise detract from the learning experience. In addition to the brief summaries below, you can click on the dropdown menus to view my feedback on the individual modules' sections.

## Injection Attacks

This module is very quick to complete. Unlike the Tier 2 **Command Injections** module, which covers injection testing methodologies more broadly, **Injection Attacks** more narrowly focuses on three technologies and how they specifically can lead to vulnerabilities in an application. While this deepens your understanding of the attacks against them specifically, I think that this module is erroneously titled, focusing on XPath and LDAP Injections more particularly and bolting-on attacks on PDF-generators at the end.

<hr>
<div class="custom-dropdown">
<details markdown=block>
<summary markdown=span>Module Details</summary>
{% include_relative helpers/dropdown-injection-attacks.md %}
</details>
</div>

## Introduction to NoSQL Injection

I thought this module was pretty cool, being familiar to the idea of non-relational databases but without having extensively tested against them. To that end, this module was filled with some pretty neat content that was easy to follow along with but nuanced enough to appreciate the technical complexity. My only complaint here - which is fairly consistent with the Academy at-large - is that the tools they provide/suggest aren't always intuitive or helpful; however, there's plenty of open source alternatives available that I engaged which made this module altogether a more pleasant experience.

<hr>
<div class="custom-dropdown">
<details markdown=block>
<summary markdown=span>Module Details</summary>
{% include_relative helpers/dropdown-nosql.md %}
</details>
</div>

## Attacking Authentication Mechanisms

This module builds off of what is learned in the **Broken Authentication** module. However, where **Broken Authentication** focuses on basic attacks more generally (e.g. brute forcing, password inference, etc.), this module more narrowly examines technical vulnerabilities present in particular authentication mechanisms. Namely: JWT, OAuth, and SAML-supported SSO. I thought this module was pretty good, however the exercises didn't always help with solidfying comprehension.

<hr>
<div class="custom-dropdown">
<details markdown=block>
<summary markdown=span>Module Details</summary>
{% include_relative helpers/dropdown-atk-authentication.md %}
</details>
</div>

## Advanced XSS and CSRF Exploitation

This module was both one of the most rewarding along the path and the most frustrating. It's unique in providing some supporting architectural elements (i.e. an exploit & exfiltration server); these elements generally help with streamlining the learning experience - allowing users who don't possess more expensive licensed software like **Burp Suite Pro** access to the training. However, these learning aids come with some inconsistent application and hiccups which can be really frustrating. More than once I found myself battling the architecture vs. just engaging the problem; this is something I think is bound to happen when instruction isn't transparent about where/how victim users are artificially being simulated.

However, once you get past that the details and exercises that accompany the training are really great. There's a lot of practical application to be had all throughout the module, which affords some good opportunities to really sink your teeth into a kind of vulnerability that typically lacks nuance in its surface-level understanding; you go well beyond simply passing `<script>alert(1);</script>` into form fields.

<hr>
<div class="custom-dropdown">
<details markdown=block>
<summary markdown=span>Module Details</summary>
{% include_relative helpers/dropdown-advanced-xss.md %}
</details>
</div>

## HTTPs/TLS Attacks

Unlike a lot of other content/training offered by Hack The Box, this module felt quite "academic". A lot of the vulnerabilities, exploits, and tools you engage with in this module aren't directly performed; most of the time, you're reading about a particular vulnerability or observing its effects in a provided PCAP file. On occasion you're given an exercise that has you perform the attacks described, with the heavy lifting performed by just a couple of tools introduced: **padbuster** and **TLS-Breaker**. The module shies away from getting into the math and proofs that undergird the research in the cryptographic attacks, opting instead to keep discussions at a high-level in observing protocol exchanges. Because of this, I think the module's author(s) may have been hamstrung in what they could showcase. Overall however, the descriptions of what's transpiring are excellently laid out for the lay-person, with those few exercises that you do perform the attacks being excellent.

<hr>
<div class="custom-dropdown">
<details markdown=block>
<summary markdown=span>Module Details</summary>
{% include_relative helpers/dropdown-https-tls.md %}
</details>
</div>

## Abusing HTTP Misconfigurations

This was a great module along the **Senior Web Penetration Tester** path. It thoroughly covered **web cache poisoning**, **host header attacks**, and **session puzzling**, all of which were really interesting to read-up on and learn about. The section questions presented a lot of variation and hands-on work to better understand the vulnerabilities, but also doesn't shy away from providing thorough briefs on the underlying technologies that can be the source for these exploitable vulnerabilities. Overall, this was one of the more enjoyable/worthwhile modules of the path and is appropriate at Tier 3.

<hr>
<div class="custom-dropdown">
<details markdown=block>
<summary markdown=span>Module Details</summary>
{% include_relative helpers/dropdown-abusing-http.md %}
</details>
</div>

## HTTP Attacks

After a small break in my training schedule, this was a great module to return back in with. Though named "HTTP Attacks", it really was focused on 2 different kinds of vulnerabilities: CRLF injection as well as **Content-Length** and/or **Transfer-Encoding** tampering. Despite having a third category ("HTTP/2 Downgrading"), in practice it really felt derivative of the Request Smuggling portion of the module, which exhaustively showed how tampering with the **Content-Length** and/or **Transfer-Encoding** headers could lead to all kinds of mischief. Despite that, the training was still very good and appropriate to the Tier it aligns with. The particularly challenging subsections included **HTTP Response Splitting** and **TE.CL**, both of which had exercises that very creatively innovated on the concepts their respective material introduced.

<hr>
<div class="custom-dropdown">
<details markdown=block>
<summary markdown=span>Module Details</summary>
{% include_relative helpers/dropdown-http-attacks.md %}
</details>
</div>

## Blind SQL Injection

If anyone is familiar with boolean-based and/or time-based SQLi, then this module should be relatively trivial. While the module does introduce some neat python scripts that can be tailored for various encounters, I'd argue that functionally the material is just an alternative to using SQLmap to attain the same outcomes (albeit with much greater granularity of control and stripped down in its capabilities). There is also a brief introduction to working with **Microsoft SQL** (MSSQL), including some elements of leveraging privileged commands to achieve RCE. Overall however, this module didn't feel quite up to the level of Tier 3 training as some of the other modules along the **Senior Web Penetration Tester** path (and I'd contend this could reasonably be bumped down to a Tier 2 module). Overall, the module isn't lacking in the quality of its training or its exercises, but the material covered didn't feel sufficiently "advanced" enough as to warrant its price-point.

<hr>
<div class="custom-dropdown">
<details markdown=block>
<summary markdown=span>Module Details</summary>
{% include_relative helpers/dropdown-blind-sql.md %}
</details>
</div>

## Intro to Whitebox Pentesting

I'll admit, when I first started this module I was prepared for it to be a cake walk; after all, you're provided all of the source code (which doesn't change at all until the Skills Assessment), it uses the same framework (**NodeJS**), and the codebase itself is pretty small and intuitive. However, I ended up finding that this module was my favorite of all the modules leading up to it, since its exercises are so permissively open-ended in their applied solutions. Each subsection talks about a different way the same app could be exploited, focusing not just on the exploit, but the process of analysis that could lend to you arriving at discovering said exploit (the latter of which is arguably more important in a whitebox assessment). For each exercise, you're using the same NodeJS code that you can host as a localized server to test against before launching your complete exploit against the HackTheBox-hosted version of the same code.

It felt really nice to exercise some creativity in how to go about engaging the problem, and it felt satisfying to apply lessons from other modules in iterating those approaches. For example, one of the problems the module grapples with is data extraction (suggesting either hijacking the response body, the error message body, or inferring the content via time-based blind attacks) - in the process of going about the module, I worked on applying a different method altogether: out-of-band messaging, encoding responses into outbound requests (which worked locally, but failed in the exercise due to dockerized connectivity constraints). Altogether, this module took longer than others and - in my opinion - was one of the most enjoyable.

<hr>
<div class="custom-dropdown">
<details markdown=block>
<summary markdown=span>Module Details</summary>
{% include_relative helpers/intro-to-whitebox.md %}
</details>
</div>

## Modern Web Exploitation Techniques

From the onset, this looked like a really long module, with 3 sections containing 5-6 subsections each. In actuality, most of the module's section are pretty quick/trivial to step through (I got hung-up on only one subsection related to **WebSockets**). Altogether, this module felt pretty lackluster in comparison to some of the others HTB has put together at the Tier 3 level. The one truly novel attack that's showcased is **DNS rebinding**, but its unfortunate how little practical application exercises are designed around it. The **Second-Order Attacks** section content could have probably been rolled into other pre-existing Tier 2 modules that cover the respective XSS, LFI, and Command Injection attacks in greater detail. While I did learn some things from the module, it was ultimately a bit disappointing considering its pricepoint. This module felt like a kind of dumping ground for sections that wouldn't otherwise fit anywhere else (with the notable exception of the **Second-Order Attacks**, which feels included only to give the section more material to work with).

<hr>
<div class="custom-dropdown">
<details markdown=block>
<summary markdown=span>Module Details</summary>
{% include_relative helpers/modern-web-exploit.md %}
</details>
</div>

## Introduction to Deserialization Attacks

I really liked this section. It covers the premise of deserialization attacks in not 1 but 2 different implementations (`PHP` and `Python`) as well as including a more robust remediation section (vs. a tagged-on single subsection at the end of the module, which is the case for most offensively-oriented modules in the Academy). I wasn't keenly familiar with deserialization attacks from the onset, but I felt like the module was really well crafted and covered the highlights of the vulnerability class quite well. While there were many exercises throughout the module, their were a handful of topics that I felt deliberately did not include an exercise (e.g. `JSONpickle`) which I presumed were reserved for either the exam. The path does feature a follow-up `Advanced Deserialization Attacks` module that's meant to be covered after this one.

<hr>
<div class="custom-dropdown">
<details markdown=block>
<summary markdown=span>Module Details</summary>
{% include_relative helpers/intro-deserialize.md %}
</details>
</div>

## Whitebox Attacks

This was an extraordinary section that I felt lived up to its Tier in difficulty and value. The module looks at `prototype pollution`, `timing attacks & race conditions`, and `type juggling` vulnerabilities, with plenty of exercises devoted to each. I found it took me quite a bit of time to ingest/learn this module's content; there were a number of subsections that I spent several hours on working through. The "Whitebox" portion of this module is subtle; it's easy to more narrowly focus on the vulnerabilities and less on the practice of performing a source-code assessment. But I urge students engaging this module to slow down and actually read through the code, if only to develop a good habit. 

<hr>
<div class="custom-dropdown">
<details markdown=block>
<summary markdown=span>Module Details</summary>
{% include_relative helpers/dropdown-whitebox-attacks.md %}
</details>
</div>

## Advanced SQL Injections

