#### CRLF Injection

I'll admit, I thought that this section was pretty weak from the onset. The **Log Injection** subsection felt very derivative from the Log Poisoning training presented in the Tier 2 **File Inclusion** module and the enumeration strategies presented in the Tier 2 **Command Injection** module. However, the **HTTP Response Splitting** subsection was unexpectedly challenging and - I feel - a good example of how Hack The Box presents material in a fundamental way and then is able to build upon it in creative fashions in its questions/challenges; in the course of completing that particular subsection, I learned more about HTTP Response headers and using XHR than what I would have expected in just what the subsection suggests is needed. The section wraps up with **SMTP Header Injections** - the accompanying exercise can be completed by a close reading of the material, though the solution is not a literal copy/paste of what's presented.

#### HTTP Request Smuggling/Desync Attacks

This section was pretty challenging in the way that the section author(s) structured the exercises, but the content itself was pretty good. On its face, the material provides you several different ways of how subtle differences in layered technologies can desynchronize HTTP requests from responses. Specifically, it looks at how they interpret where the end of a given HTTP request is (creating confusion between headers like **Content-Length** and **Transfer-Encoding**, which both can specify how long a message is, but may not correctly be handled by RFC standards correctly for a given proxy/web server configuration). While the material was sufficient in its coverage, the challenge to the exercises came from what went unspoken (e.g. changing HTTP verbs and/or combining multiple different **TE.TE** techniques together).

#### HTTP/2 Downgrading

This section has some interesting content, but only 1 exercise (which is fairly straightforward to perform given the examples). The section primarily denotes a number of ways where differences in protocols between layered components can introduce vulnerabilities. The exercise specifically focuses on instances where an intermediary proxy receives requests in **HTTP/2**, but then passes along requests in **HTTP/1.1** (e.g. **H2.CL** vulnerability). This is a real shame, considering the variations they put forward in **Further H2 Vulnerabilities**; in the future, I would hope that additional exercises are introduced to reflect these other vulnerabilities as well. Alternatvely, it wouldn't surprise me to learn that some of the techniques described in the "Further H2 Vulnerabilities" are instead reserved for the CWEE exam.