## Books

Books are wonderful resources to learn cybersecurity. They often dive deep on subjects, enabling you to better understand the given subject-matter. Try checking out your resident library to see what's available locally (or [humblebundle](https://www.humblebundle.com/bundles?hmb_source=navbar) for the occasional cyber-themed bundle of eBooks). Another wonderful suggestion catalogue can be found at the [Ohio State University Cybersecurity Canon](https://icdt.osu.edu/cybercanon/bookreviews). Absent that, consider some of these recommended reads that I've personally read over:

* **Sandworm by Andy Greenberg**: This details the discovery of a Russian GRU hacking unit by way of its developed exploits and attacks in Eastern Europe; it builds upon the author’s earlier work with WIRED magazine, which detailed the NotPetya attack that crippled Ukraine’s infrastructure and cascaded across the globe. At its core, it opens readers to the prospect of cyberwarfare.
* **Ghost in the Wire by Kevin Mitnick**: This is the author’s autobiographical account of their criminal exploits as a phone phreaker and cracker throughout the 80’s and 90’s. While somewhat self-aggrandizing and lacking in any real introspection, it is very clear that – in a technical capacity – the author knew how to “walk-the-walk” so-to-speak. It also offers some insight as to how aggressive the U.S. judicial system can handle cyber crime.
* **The Basics of Hacking and Penetration Testing by Patrick Engebretson**: as a book “aimed at people who are new to the world of hacking and penetration testing”, it offers plenty of interesting things for novices looking to enter the industry. This includes the use and application of assorted tools in the stages of a pentest.
* **The Kill Chain by Christian Brose**: an indirect take on cybersecurity, focusing more on the subject of U.S. national security in its positioning with China. It does examine how technical innovations (such as AI and other autonomous systems) may overturn the American model of national defense.
* **You’ll See This Message When it is Too Late by Josephine Wolff**: This book performs a number of case studies on how organizations have responded to cyber espionage, fraud, and other crimes. It shows that there isn’t really a one-size-fits-all response and that people are quicker to assign blame rather than focus on the victims and damages.
* **Dark Territory by Fred Kaplan**: This book describes the growth of cyber warfare and the extent to which our lives have become inextricably linked to the internet. It backgrounds how various U.S. agencies have been shaped by cyber policy enacted by people with competing interests; this aspect can make the book challenging at times to follow.
* **@War: Rise of the Military-Internet Complex by Share Harris**: Harris details the political mechanisms that were used by various U.S. federal organizations - such as the NSA and FBI - to care out authority in the domain of cybersecurity. It's a history of preemptive action and response; showing how the federal government can at times be both the biggest player in the space and also the most out-of-touch.
* **Spam Nation by Brian Krebs**: Krebs is probably more well-known for his ongoing blog, [Krebs On Security](https://krebsonsecurity.com/). However, this book examines more closely an area of early fascination by Krebs: the so-called Pharma Wars. It's a narrative of dramatic confrontation between two major underground pharmaceutical businesses (Rx-Promotion and GlavMed) from 2008 to 2010, the people that operated them, and the black market it facilitated.
* **We Are Anonymous by Parmy Olson**: This book is a narrative on the rise and prominence of the online anarchist collective referred to as "Anonymous". Covering a span of time from 1994 through 2012, the author showcases the conditions that fostered such a group, then more narrowly reconstructs the lives of a handful of its participants who later formed the hackvist group, LulzSec. It's a quick, uncomplicated read.